
You may distribute these notes under the terms of the OpenContent
License (http://opencontent.org/opl.shtml).

ALGORITHMS

    Thomas H. Cormen
    Charles E. Leiserson
    Ronald L. Rivest
    Introduction to Algorithms

        This is the "big white book" that has become a standard and
        widely used algorithms text.  If you own it, you probably bought
        it because of a class.  This book will help you to understand,
        both formally and intuitively, how and why an algorithm works.
        However, it may not help you to efficiently implement the
        algorithm.  If you don't have it, buy some of the others first.

    Donald E. Knuth
    The Art of Computer Programming, Vol. 1: Fundamental Algorithms
    The Art of Computer Programming, Vol. 2: Seminumerical Algorithms
    The Art of Computer Programming, Vol. 3: Sorting and Searching
    The Stanford GraphBase: A Platform for Combinatorial Computing

        The three-volume set of The Art of Computer Programming is a
        standard reference work for algorithms.  It explains all classic
        algorithms and has references to classic papers.  These books
        will help you to avoid reinventing the wheel and will serve as
        the first reference used when you need to figure out what kind
        of algorithm you should use for a particularly difficult
        problem.  (The last book listed is similar, but concentrates on
        graph algorithms -- you don't need it unless you are deeply
        interested in graph theory.)

    David R. Hanson
    C Interfaces and Implementations: Techniques for Creating Reusable
    Software

        This book is a must-read if you've ever written an algorithms
        library.  It is one of the very few good books on algorithms
        written from a programmer's perspective.  The library developed
        throughout the book is Open Source and works under Unix and
        Windows.

    G. H. Gonnet
    R. Baeza-Yates
    Handbook of Algorithms and Data Structures In Pascal and C

        This book is thinner, avoids a lot of the theory, and provides
        succinct explanations of how algorithms work.  This is very
        helpful if you knew what an algorithm did and need a quick
        refresher.  The references are good, so it's also nice to use
        when you need to find which algorithm you need to learn more
        about (i.e., instead of paging through all of Knuth's TAoCP).

    Andrew Binstock
    John Rex
    Practical Algorithms for Programmers

        This book is listed because it is one of the few algorithms
        books that targets a programmer audience.  Buy it for
        completeness, but get Hanson first.



PREVIOUS TOPICS

    C Programming Basics
    Programming Practice (Style)



FUTURE TOPICS
    Unix Programming
    Unix Tools
    Software Engineering
    Security and Testing
    C++ Programming (?)
    Design Patterns (?)
    Database and Information Retrieval (?)
    Compilers and Little Languages (?)
    Threads (?)
    Linux Kernel Programming (?)
    ? -- send me email and suggest a topic...
