INTRODUCTION

Several people have asked me to revive my old reading list web site (for
programmers and software engineers), and I'll try to do that gradually
here and get it on the web later.  You may distribute this under the
terms of the OpenContent License (http://opencontent.org/opl.shtml).
Unless otherwise noted, I regularly use or have read all of the books I
recommend.  Your feedback is welcome.

I've tried to list here books that programmers should own for reference
and books that programmers and software engineers should read (others
may find these books useful, but there is a strong bias toward software
development under Unix).  I only list what I consider to be the "best of
breed" -- there are many other books available, but I've found that
finding the right book for the job is often difficult.

I recently saw a statistic that stated software engineers read about 1
book per year on average (in their field).  What if you tried to read 1
book per month?



C PROGRAMMING BASICS

    Programming languages -- C (ISO/IEC 9899:1999)

        This is the international standard for C99.  You can purchase a
        copy in PDF format from ansi.org for about $26.  This is the
        first C standards document that's available at a reasonable
        price (paper versions are usually over $100).  While you're at
        it also download the Corrigendum, which is free.

    Brian W. Kernighan and Dennis M. Ritchie
    The C Programming Language, 2nd edition

        This is the most affordable reference for ANSI C (X3.159-1989,
        or "C89").  You need a copy of this book and the C99 standards
        document to resolve any questions about the language.  The book
        is thin and has many examples and exercises (it can be used as a
        textbook for those learning C).

    Samuel P. Harbison and Guy L. Steele Jr.
    C: A Reference Manual, 3rd edition

        Experienced C programmers will find this a better reference work
        than K&R.  This book is more pragmatic than K&R and will help
        you to figure out the answer to your programming questions so
        that you can move on and get the job done.  If you only buy one
        book on C, get this one instead of K&R -- it will be more
        helpful over the years.  Editions after the 3rd are thicker and
        I haven't looked at any of them, however I hear it's still a
        high-quality book.

    P. J. Plauger
    The Standard C Library

        This is a reference work (not for casual reading).  However, if
        you are interested in understanding how a function in libc can
        be implemented, you either look here or read source.  This is
        not in the "must have" category that the first two are, but is
        mentioned here for completeness.



PROGRAMMING PRACTICE (STYLE)

    Brian W. Kernighan and Rob Pike
    The Practice of Programming

        After you've learned the basics of the language, you need to
        read some books that help you think about programming.  This is
        a refreshingly modern look at programming (classics are listed
        below).  IF YOU READ NOTHING ELSE ABOUT PROGRAMMING STYLE, READ
        THIS!  (If you are considering Hunt and Thomas, READ THIS
        INSTEAD.)

    P. J. Plauger
    Programming on Purpose: Essays on Software Design
    Programming on Purpose II: Essays on Software People
    Programming on Purpose III: Essays on Software Technology

        These 3 books are collections of essays, where each essay is
        self-contained but related to the others.  These thin volumes
        are perfect for carrying around and reading when you have a few
        minutes.  The examples use languages that are old, but the
        wisdom is timeless.

    Jon Bentley
    Programming Pearls
    More Programming Pearls: Confessions of a Coder

        These books are written for programmers about problems that
        require insight and creativity.  If Plauger's essays are snacks,
        Bentley's chapters gives you a full meal.

    Kernighan and Plauger
    The Elements of Programming Style, 2nd edition

        This is a classic book that is similar to those listed above.
        Read it for completeness (and for a taste of good Fortran
        style), but read the others first.

    Kernighan and Plauger
    Software Tools in Pascal
    Software Tools

        At least one of these classics recently came back into print, so
        you can probably find a copy.  These books teach programming by
        example while developing real (and familiar!) tools: grep, sort,
        ed, nroff, and others.  The programming style is older -- these
        books are from an era when structured programming was new and
        when people were not yet using object-oriented paradigms when
        programming in C.


FUTURE TOPICS
    Algorithms
    Unix Programming
    Software Engineering
    Security and Testing
    C++ Programming (?)
    Design Patterns (?)
    Database and Information Retrieval (?)
    Compilers and Little Languages (?)
    Threads (?)
    Linux Kernel Programming (?)
    ? -- send me email and suggest a topic...
