
You may distribute these notes under the terms of the OpenContent
License (http://opencontent.org/opl.shtml).

Please remember to remove the headers if you forward outside the
company!

UNIX PROGRAMMING

    W. Richard Stevens
    Advanced Programming in the UNIX Environment

        If you program in C for Unix or Linux, this book is absolutely
        a MUST HAVE.  If you don't own it, but it now.  You will use it
        again and again as you try to figure out the intricacies of the
        Unix operating system from a programmer's viewpoint.


    Michael K. Johnson
    Erik H. Troan
    Linux Application Development

        This book is both similar to and complementary to Stevens'
        APitUE.  While it ignores the cross-platform knowledge that
        Stevens provides, it provides deep information about
        Linux-specific programming.  Much of the book is motivated by
        the creation of a tiny shell -- making this book an interesting
        read as well as a useful reference.


    Douglas E. Comer
    David L. Stevens
    Internetworking with TCP/IP, Volume III: Client-Server Programming
    and Applications

    W. Richard Stevens
    UNIX Network Programming

        These two books are the standard reference works for
        socket-based programming (be sure to get the right "version" of
        Comer & Stevens -- the one that covers BSD Sockets and not,
        e.g., VMS or Windows).  If you are interested in the underlying
        TCP/IP protocol, Volume I & II of Comer & Stevens' series are
        quite good.  [Note that Stevens' UNP is now a 2 volume set and
        that I've only used the older 1 volume version.  Note also that
        there are two different people named Stevens.]

    John Viega
    Gary McGraw
    Building Secure Software: How to Avoid Security Problems the Right Way

        This book is SO IMPORTANT that I'll list it here and in the
        security section.  There are a lot of books on security and
        cryptography, but this is the only modern book that talks
        directly to programmers.  It describes how to write code that is
        susceptible to buffer overflow, race, and statistical attacks --
        and methods for detecting and eliminating that kind of code from
        the programs that you write.  GET IT.  READ IT.  READ IT AGAIN.


PREVIOUS TOPICS

    C Programming Basics
    Programming Practice (Style)
    Algorithms

FUTURE TOPICS
    Unix Tools
    Software Engineering
    Security and Testing
    C++ Programming (?)
    Design Patterns (?)
    Database and Information Retrieval (?)
    Compilers and Little Languages (?)
    Threads (?)
    Linux Kernel Programming (?)
    ? -- send me email and suggest a topic...
