
You may distribute these notes under the terms of the OpenContent
License (http://opencontent.org/opl.shtml).

Please remember to remove the headers if you forward outside the
company!

UNIX TOOLS

    Shelley Powers
    Jerry Peek
    Tim O'Reilly
    Mike Loukides
    Unix Power Tools

        This thick volume covers most of the common Unix tools and the
        recent editions (e.g., the 3rd) have special coverage of Linux.
        I don't own this book, but so many people that I respect have
        recommended it that I feel obligated to recommend it as the
        first and best choice in this category.

    Gary V. Vaughan
    Ben Elliston
    Ton Tromey
    Ian Lance Taylor
    GNU Autoconf, Automake, and Libtool

        Modern Open Source software invariably uses the GNU autoconf
        family of tools for configuration and building.  This is the
        definitive book on how to use these tools effectively.  Even if
        you're been using them for years, you need to get this book and
        read it so that you can take advantage of modern standards and
        features.

    Alfred V. Aho
    Brian W. Kernighan
    Peter J. Weinberger
    The AWK Programming Language

        This is the classic book on AWK programming, mentioned here for
        completeness in case anyone still writes large programs in AWK.
        If you're buying your first book on AWK, you'll probably want an
        O'Reilly book -- see below.

    Books published by O'Reilly & Associates (www.ora.com)

        O'Reilly has a number of books on fundamental Unix tools (e.g.,
        sed, awk, lex, yacc, perl, php, vi, emacs, bash, etc.).  These
        books are generally well written, well bound, and will serve you
        well for years to come.  The Unix Power Tools book is also from
        O'Reilly, but if you need more information about a specific
        tool, continue to look at their offerings.  [They also have a
        number of good books on programming and other topics.  For
        example, if you program X11, you probably already own their 6
        volume set on X11.]



PREVIOUS TOPICS

    C Programming Basics
    Programming Practice (Style)
    Algorithms
    Unix Programming

FUTURE TOPICS
    Software Engineering
    Security and Testing
    C++ Programming (?)
    Design Patterns (?)
    Database and Information Retrieval (?)
    Compilers and Little Languages (?)
    Threads (?)
    Linux Kernel Programming (?)
    ? -- send me email and suggest a topic...
