
**One-Pot Braised Chard With Gnocchi, Peas and Leeks**
By Melissa Clark

Read community notes
Adding a package of prepared potato gnocchi to a pot of braised greens turns a side dish into a vibrant one-pot meal fit for weeknights. The chard stems, leeks and peas are nubby and colorful next to the pillowy gnocchi, while a combination of butter and white wine makes the sauce rich and tangy. For extra creaminess, serve this with dollops of fresh ricotta stirred in at the last minute. Or skip the ricotta for a lighter meal.


INGREDIENTS

4 tablespoons unsalted butter
3 leeks, white and light green parts, sliced thinly into half-moons
1 pound chard, preferably rainbow or red (about 2 bunches), stems thinly sliced and leaves coarsely chopped
3 garlic cloves, minced or finely grated
2 teaspoons chopped thyme leaves
Kosher salt and black pepper
¾ cup dry white wine
3 cups vegetable or chicken stock
1 pound potato gnocchi (fresh, frozen or shelf-stable all work)
2 cups peas, fresh or frozen(or sugar snap peas)
2 tablespoons chopped fresh tarragon leaves
1 cup torn parsley leaves and tender stems, for serving
Grated Parmesan, for serving
Lemon wedges, for serving
Fresh ricotta, for serving (optional)
Red-pepper flakes, for serving (optional)



Step 1
In a 5- or 6-quart Dutch oven, melt butter over medium-high heat. Add leeks and chard stems, and cook until tender and lightly brown, 7 to 10 minutes.

Step 2
Stir in garlic, thyme and a large pinch of salt and black pepper, and sauté until fragrant, about 1 minute longer. Add wine, scraping up the brown bits at bottom of pot, and let the wine reduce by half, 2 to 4 minutes. Pour in stock and ¾ teaspoon salt, and bring to a simmer.

Step 3
Stir in gnocchi and chard leaves. Cook, partly covered, for 15 minutes, until the chard is soft. Add peas and tarragon, and continue to cook, partly covered, until gnocchi are cooked through, another 5 to 10 minutes. Taste and add more salt, if needed.

Step 4
To serve, top with parsley, a generous shower of Parmesan and a big squeeze of lemon. If you like, you can also add a dollop of ricotta and some red-pepper flakes.

